Patrik Debois - 2007 - Introduced the term Devops
Devops is a set of philosophies, practices and tools that help and organization to deliver better products faster by facilitating the integration of the development and operation functions

Key Benefits of using Devops
1. More focus on automation
2. Integrated Change Management
3. Continuous Integration
4. Automated Testing
5. Continuous Deployment
6. Application Monitoring
7. Production support
8. Active stakeholder participation

Disadvantages?
1. Devops professional are less available
2. Developing with devops is very expensive
3. lack of devops knowledge can be a problem as it can messup the entire project
4. Adopting new Devops technology into the industry is hard to manage in short time



What is version control system?
Version control is the management of changes to documents , computer programs, large websites and other collection of information

Two types version control systems

1. CVS (Centralized version control system)
2. DVCS (Distributed version control systems)

What is Continuous Integration?
It is a software practice in which each member of development team integrates his work with that produced by others on a continuous basis

Problems:

- It took days or even weeks for software developers to integrate their code and merge the changes

- It creates merge conflicts
- It creates stubborn bugs
- Duplicated efforts

Step 1: Split the entire code into segments
Step 2: Keep small segments of manageble code
Step 3: Integrate the segmented code, multiple times of a days
Step 4: Adopt a continuous integration methodolgy to cordinate with your team

Benefits of Continuous Integration:
1. Reduced Integration Risk: 
2. Higher Code Quality:
3. The code in version control works:
4. Reduced friction between team members
5. Easy for QA team
6. Less Time deploying

Principle of Continuous Integration(CI)
1. The maintaineance of a code repository
2. Automating the build process
3. Making the build self-testing
4. Everyone commiting to the baseline every day
5. Every commit to baseline should be built
6. Keeping the build fast
7. Testing in a clone of the production environment
8. Make it easy to get the latest deliverables
9. Everyone can see the results of the latest build
10.Automatic Deployment

Requiremts for CI
1. Version control System
2. Server(VM)
3. Hosted CI Tool Solution
4. Tools(Jenkins, Bamboo, Teamcity...)

How does continuous Integration works?
1. Developers input code into their private terminals
2. After that is done, they commit the changes to the shared repository
3. The CI server monitors the repository and analyzes the changes as they occur
4. Continuous Integration builds the system and runs unit and integration tests
5. Server also releases deployable artefacts for testing
6. The CI Server assigns a build tag to the version of the code it is just built
7. The CI server gives the team reports of the sucessful build
8. if the build or tests fail, the server alerts the development team
9. The team will fix issue as soon as is possible
10. It continues to integrate and run tests throughout the entire project

Tools:
Jenkins
Teamcity
Travis

Jenkins Features

1. Adoption
2. Plugins

Continuous Deployment?
It is an approach of releasing software on the production servers continuously in automated fashion

Benefits of Continuous Deployment:
Speed: Deployment does not pause for releases so it is developed really fast
Secure: Releases are less risky as before releasing testing is performed and all the bugs are solved
Continuous Improvements: Continuous deployment support continuous improvements which are visible to customers

Containerization is a type of virtualization which brings virtualization to the operating system level.While virtualization brings abstraction to the hardware, Containerization brings abstraction to the operating system

Dockerfile, Docker images and Docker Containers are 3 important terms tha you need to understand while using docker

Dockerfile: A dockerfile is a text document which contains all the commands that a user can call on the command line to assemble an images, so Docker can build images automatically by reading the instructions from a dockerfile, you can use "docker build" to create an automated build to execute several command line instructions in succession

Docker image: In layman terms, Docker Image can be compared to a template which is used to create Docker Containers.

To run the image and to create a container we can use "docker run"

Docker images are stored in the docker registry


Docker Container: It is a running instance of a docker image. It holds the entire package needed to run the application

Docker Compose - Is a YAML file which contains details about the services, networks and volumes for setting up the application

Docker Swarm - It is a technique to create and maintain a cluster of Docker engines.

Docker Commands

1. docker -version
It will tell you current version of your docker

2. docker help
It will give you a full listing of commands that the docker client can understand

3. docker command --help
It will give a help for a specific command

4. docker info - It will display several pieces of information about OS

5. docker run -t -i busybox - It will create an instance (container) of image busybox 

It first checks if image is available local repository , if it doesnot it will pull image from the docker hub.

docker ps : This will give you a list of all running containers. you will notice from the output that there is container busybox running 

docker images - It will list all the images downloaded on your local docker repository

docker start <container id>
docker stop <container id>

docker pull httpd - This will only download the httpd image from docker hub to docker local repository


docker run -it --name mycontainer1 ubuntu:latest

inside ubuntu 
#=> apt-get update
=>apt-get install git
=> git --version
=> exit

docker ps -a
docker commit mycontainer1 ubuntu-git
docker tag ubuntu-git dockeruseradmin/ubuntu-git
docker push dockeruseradmin/ubuntu-git

Commands to try by students(self learning)
docker –version
docker pull
docker run
docker ps
docker ps -a
docker exec
docker stop
docker kill
docker commit
docker login
docker push
docker images
docker rm
docker rmi
docker build


Kubernets Features
1. Automatic Binpacking: Kubernetes automatically packages your application and schedules the containers based on their requirements and available resources while not sacrificing availability. Kubernetes balances between critical and best effort workloads

2. Service Discovery and Load Balancing: There is no need to worry about networking and communication because kubernetes automatically assign IP address to containers and single DNS name for a set of containers, that can load balance traffic inside the cluster

3. Storage Orchestration: You can mount the storage system of your choice. You can either opt for local storage or choose a public cloud such as GCP, AWS, Azure. You can also use shared network storage system such as NFS, iSCSI etc..

4. Self-healing: Kubernetes can automatically restart containers that fail during execution and kills those containers that don't respond to user-defined health checks.But if node itself die, then it replaces and reschedules those failed containers on other available nodes

5. Secret and Configuration Management: It can help you deploy and update secrets and application configuration without rebuilding your image and without exposing secrets in your stack configuration.

6. Batch Execution: It can manage batch and CI workloads, thus replacing containers that fail, if needed.

7. Horizontal Scaling: Using a single command on CLI it will scale up/down the containers , else you can use Kubernetes dashboard on UI

8. Automatic Rollbacks and Rollouts: It progressively rolls out changes and updates to your application or its configuration, by ensuring that not all instances are worked at the same instance


















































